When I checked into my hotel room, I saw a small gift-wrapped package sitting squarely in the center of my bed. A small card on top of the package had my name on it, but was otherwise blank. I tore open the wrapping and found a smartphone inside. Oddly enough, although I follow a lot of tech blogs and I'm pretty knowledgable about the latest models, the one in front of me looked completely unfamiliar. It came with no instruction booklet, no accessories, not even a power cord. It was a typical glass brick-style phone, except that it had only a single button on it. After turning the phone over several times to make sure there were no other controls, I tapped the sole button. The screen lit up immediately, and on the display a few icons appeared. I tapped one that looked like a camera. 

A flash of light blinded me temporarily. After blinking a few times, I looked down at the phone to see the photo I had just taken, but the screen displayed two buttons: "Save" and "Discard." I tapped "Save," and a text field appeared with the prompt, "Enter message." I guess I had to give the photo a caption. I entered "My hotel room." Then I was back on the home screen again, with all the icons. Did this piece of junk app just crash? I hoped this was indeed a prototype, otherwise it was a major letdown. Here I had gotten all excited about a mysterious new phone left for me in my hotel room. 

Out of curiosity I tapped an icon with a tee on it, wondering what kind of app would open. A drawing of a tree appeared in the background of the screen, with a bunch of colored lines superimposed on top of the tree branches. I tapped a tree branch labeled "Down-the-Hall." 

I looked up from the screen and in that moment felt a wave of dizziness and disorientation. The feeling passed quickly, and I didn't give it much thought. I looked at the phone again. Not much had changed. The app hadn't done anything special, the only difference I could see was that the Down-the-Hall tree branch was glowing slightly. So bored with this thing. I set down the phone, but almost the moment I let go of it, it began to ring. Uh, that was weird. Who would be calling this brand new phone? I picked it back up, and saw that caller ID was blocked. Ignore. I dropped the phone on the bed and started to turn around, but then it began ringing again. Again seeing that the phone number of the incoming call was hidden, I tapped to ignore the call. Less than a second later it started ringing again, with the number of the caller hidden yet again. Giving in, I picked it up and answered it.

"Yes?" I asked.

The voice that came out of the phone sounded like a metallic susurrus, as if the speaker were whispering and the signal had been diminished by traveling a great distance over copper wire. "Learn to use this phone..." The words trailed off in a sigh.

"Did you leave this for me? Who are you?"

"Learn to use this phone. There is a clue by the ice machine..."

Uh, what? This was getting rather creepy.

"Go to the ice machine down the hall..." the voice continued. The whole situation seemed suspicious, but my curiosity got the better of me. Creepy as this voice was, I was in a nice hotel; it wasn't as though anything terrible would happen to me here. I stepped out into the hall and followed the signs to the ice machine at the far end. I looked around and saw a small card sticking out from under the ice machine. I picked it up and read the words: "Capture this moment so you can visit it later."

I told the voice in the phone, "OK, I found a card under the ice machine, but it's asking me to photograph something...I guess the ice machine? I don't get it."

"This device does not take photographs..."

"Yeah, last time I tried using the camera app it seemed to crash--"

"No, it is not a camera...it does not capture an image, it captures a complete moment in time...Capture the moment...press the button...trust me..."

Fine. I was still somewhat curious about this weird phone and the weird person on the other end of the line, so I figured as may as well see this through. I went back to the phone's home screen and tapped the camera icon. The flash went off, and I tapped the "Save" button, then entered the caption "Ice machine."

"Good...good..." the voice cooed. "Now, look at the tree..."

I opened the tree app again. 

"Look at the circles on the tree branch..."

I looked at it more closely. The last circle at the end of the branch I had tapped earlier, "Down-the-Hall," had the word "Choice" next to it. From there, another side branch split off, with more circles along it. The circle before "Choice" on the Down-the-Hall branch had the label "Ice machine." The circle before that one had the label "The Tree App," and the first circle was named "My hotel room." OK, I think I was starting to see a pattern here...sort of.

"You have a choice..." the voice continued. "Revisit a moment you captured, or switch branches...choose from the tree..."

I tapped on the tree.

The sensation of dizziness and disorientation filled me again. I had tapped another branch, and now it was glowing.

"Good...you have switched branches again..."

"Uh, what do you mean?"

"You have a phone that is more than a phone. It allows travel back in time, and travel to alternate timelines. You just have to commit a moment to its memory, and then you can go back to it..."

Uh-huh. I should have seen it earlier. The owner of this voice was not only creepy, but crazy. I hung up on the voice as it continued some half-whispered speech I couldn't make out. The moment I ended the call, the phone started ringing again. I ignored it. A minute later, the phone buzzed to let me know I had a new voicemail. I groaned realizing that again I would let my curiosity get the better of me, and played back the voicemail. "Use the device to capture a moment in time, to commit it to memory, and then you can travel to another point in time on this branch or another..."

Sighing, I decided to give the camera app one last try. Maybe I would figure out what the voice meant. I tapped the camera icon and entered the caption, "What next?" Then I returned to the tree app.
